Developed by David South for CSC 17A section 47975 at Riverside City

How To Play:
Ave Imperator is played in alternating rounds of combat where you and
your opponent select actions and carry them out. 

Player Stats:
Player Stats are randomly assigned at the beginning of the game.
They are created as a random average and increased by your choice
of weapon and armor. Your base stats are:

Health - How much damage you can take before surrender.
Strength - How hard you can hit for with a weapon.
Agility - Your ability to parry and dodge incoming attacks
Defense Rating - The amount of damage you can mitigate.
Fatigue - As you fight, your combat prowess will decrease.
Favor - As you gain favor, your abilities will increase slightly.
If you fall in the arena, Favor will also play a factor in the
Emperor's judgement on you.

Combat:
Combat is resolved in rounds, during each round you and your
opponent will select your actions and combat will be resolved.
There are many actions available to you in combat, attack, block
dodge, parry, counter, special attack, and recover. Not all of 
these options will be available to you during every combat round.

Attacks, of course, deal damage!
Damage is dealt by combining your strength with the damage of your
selected weapon mixed with some math voodoo and then mitigated by
your opponents defense.

Blocking will provide you with a temporary increase to your defense
potentially soaking up more damage than normal.

Dodge gives you a chance to completely move out of the path of an
incoming attack. At the cost of not doing any damage that round.

Parry gives you the chance to fully block the incoming attack of
your opponent and also confers a bonus to attack for the next round
BUT - if your parry fails, you take bonus damage from the current
attack.

Counter attacks are a quick block and strike to your opponent. You
will take reduced damage from your opponent and deal a small amount
of damage yourself this round. Counter attacks will only be
successful if your opponent attacks.

Special Attacks are provided based on the amount of Favor you have.
They are only available when you have more than 70% of your current
fatigue, and tire you out faster.  These attacks do increased 
damage when they are available.

Recover allows you gain back some fatigue during combat at the cost
of not attacking or defending that round.

Weapon stats:
In Ave Imperator, your weapon is your life, there are several to chose
from to fit your own preferred playstyle.

All One-Handed Weapons are paired with a shield which will increase
your ability to block damage

Base Damage - this is the minimum amount of damage if you hit.

Weapon Speed - the higher the number, the less likely your attack
will be blocked or parried

Weapon Reach - longer reaches provide additional defensive bonuses
as well as counter attack opportunities

Defensive Bonus - defensive bonus for chosing a two handed weapon
over a one hand and a shield

Agility Loss - larger heavier weapons that do more damage are also
harder to swing. They do more damage, but can be blocked easier.

Armor Stats:
Armor only has two stats, Defensive Bonus and Agility Loss. These
represent the ability for you to block incoming damage, but also
the loss of mobility to either dodge or parry incoming attacks.